Chapter 7 Revision (#293)
worldbank/d4di: chapters/publication.tex

%------------------------------------------------

\begin{fullwidth}

> Publishing academic research today extends well beyond writing up a Word document alone.

Reviewer: Publishing cannot even in the past only have consisted of writing a document. 
```suggestion
Publishing academic research today extends well beyond writing up and submitting a Word document alone.
```

Author: cd278a7d7aaf2666da6dd77901f8d556fff53c55

There are often various contributors making specialized inputs to a single output,
a large number of iterations, versions, and rervisions,
and a wide variety of raw materials and results to be published together.
Ideally, your team will spend as little time as possible
fussing with the technical requirements of publication.
It is in nobody's interest for a skilled and busy researcher
to spend days re-numbering references (and it can take days)
if a small amount of up-front effort could automate the task.
In this section we suggest several methods --
collectively refered to as ``dynamic documents'' --
for managing the process of collaboration on any technical product.

For most research projects, completing a written piece is not the end of the task.
In almost all cases, you will be required to release a replication package,
which contains the code and materials needed to create the results.
These represent an intellectual contribution in their own right,
because they enable others to learn from your process
and better understand the results you have obtained.
Holding code and data to the same standards a written work
is a new discpline for many researchers,

> and here we provide some basic guidelines and basic responsibilities for both

Author: Code and data, but confusing, so reworded a06f49ada8358d88e52a450f27839ac705ae78c1

> and here we provide some basic guidelines and basic responsibilities for both

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

"Holding code and data to the same standards a written work is a new *practice* for many researchers. *In this chapter*, we provide guidelines that will help you prepare a functioning and informative replication package."

> and here we provide some basic guidelines and basic responsibilities for both

Author: great a4c757d26357323a9b3c7f540da07858e1457cf9

but the core principles involved in publication and transparency will endure.
\end{fullwidth}

%------------------------------------------------

\section{Collaborating on technical writing}

It is increasingly rare that a single author will prepare an entire manuscript alone.
More often than not, documents will pass back and forth between several writers
before they are ready for publication,
so it is essential to use technology and workflows that avoid conflicts.
Just as with the preparation of analytical outputs,
this means adopting tools and practices that enable tasks
such as version control and simultaneous contribution.
Furthermore, it means preparing documents that are \textbf{dynamic} --
meaning that updates to the analytical outputs that constitute them
can be passed on to the final output with a single process,
rather than copy-and-pasted or otherwise handled individually.
Thinking of the writing process in this way
is intended to improve organization and reduce error,
such that there is no risk of materials being compiled
with out-of-date results, or of completed work being lost or redundant.

\subsection{Dynamic documents}

> Dynamic documents are a broad class of tools that enable such a workflow.

Reviewer: When I read this I thought it was a bit weird that we reference back to a different section with a vague expressions as "_such a workflow_". I think that word fits better when you are referencing something in the last sentence, but not when it is a section apart.

Author: 84de121ad8aa82f5a5344a30914f7143af4a5178

The term ``dynamic'' can refer to any document-creation technology

> that allows the creation of explicit references to raw output files.

Reviewer: dynamic docs is more than an "_explicit reference_". _explicit reference_ could just be _these numbers comes from exactly this Excel file_. We should use some wording that implies that they are interlinked and automatically stays up to date.

Author: 7c73dca767980b73b4e6e66fb905e3cb05c720ec

This means that, whenever outputs are updated,

> the next iteration of the document will automatically include

Reviewer: _next iteration_ - We can express this in a better way. My suggestion below is perhaps slightly less correct, but it helps a reader new to concept to get an intuition for what is going on.

```suggestion
the next time the document is loaded, it will automatically include
```

Author: Yep 5132ab9aaa981edf2f0a1bd33055a2a7ea961adb

> all changes made to all outputs without any additional intervention from the writer.

Reviewer: "_writer_" - I think _author_ or _user_ is better than writer. It could be an RA not responsible for writing that is tasked to do things related to this

Author: de4dd2b9815c4b9d78acab05b72be2cdbceb2eeb

This means that updates will never be accidentally excluded,
and it further means that updating results will not become more difficult
as the number of inputs grows,
because they are all managed by a single integrated process.

> You will note that this is not possible in tools like Microsoft Office.

Reviewer: Office cannot do that by itself, but since we are introducing tools later where Office is a part of the solution we should hint at that here. 

And what about the add-on tool that we saw presented at the Stata conference? We do not have to promote that tool here as I do not think anyone has tested it, but as this sentence stands now, we make it seems as there is no way to use Office for this, and there are.

Author: b1b37feacde9a65adb48c2bba7fb9f130f009fd5

In Word, for example, you have to copy and paste each object individually
whenever tables, graphs or other inputs have to be updated.

> This means that both the features above are not available:

Reviewer: "_both the features above_" - after reading several times I am still not sure which two they are

Author: 859e01a1df175ff58612255636d77c96422a5836

There are a number of tools that can be used for dynamic documents.
They fall into two broad groups --
the first compiles a document as part of code execution,
and the second operates a separate document compiler.
In the first group are tools such as R's RMarkdown and Stata's \texttt{dyndoc}.
These tools ``knit'' or ``weave'' text and code together,
and are programmed to insert code outputs in pre-specified locations.
Documents called ``notebooks'' (such as Jupyter) work similarly,
as they also use the underlying analytical software to create the document.
These types of dynamic documents are usually appropriate for short or informal materials
because they tend to offer limited editability outside the base software
and often have limited abilities to incorporate precision formatting.

On the other hand, some dynamic document tools do not require
operation of any underlying software, but simply require
that the writer have access to the updated outputs.
One very simple one is Dropbox Paper, a free online writing tool
that allows linkages to files in Dropbox,
which are then automatically updated anytime the file is replaced.

> Like the first class of tools, Dropbox Paper has very limited formatting options,

Reviewer: What is the "_first class of tools_"? We haven't mention classes of tools in the text above where this seems to be a reference to.

Author: no clue. 2820ec58fc7479c200b72c4e87f6fbaa4ebb11b1

but it is appropriate for working with collaborators who are not using statistical software.
However, the most widely utilized software
for dynamically managing both text and results is \LaTeX\ (pronounced ``lah-tek'').\sidenote{

>   \url{https://www.maths.tcd.ie/~dwilkins/LaTeXPrimer/GSWLaTeX.pdf}}

Reviewer: Why is this the link we chose here? Seems like an arbitrary link when we have something similar ourselves. This might be better than ours, but there might be something out there that is even better? We do not have to do ours, but this seems like a very subjective pick

Author: Do we have a getting started guide? I literally just searched for "getting started in LaTeX" and picked the most academic one

Reviewer: Maybe it is because of we named it: https://github.com/worldbank/DIME-LaTeX-Templates

The resource you linked to looks much more comprehensive, but I like our as it does not feel overwhelming. Maybe we can link to ours in the book and then link to the one you found in an _other resorces_ section in out training.

Author: 6fb890a2b810471425df0c32e5212a8f30ccca1d

Reviewer: ok, and I moved the resource you found to here: https://github.com/worldbank/DIME-LaTeX-Templates/commit/b9425138ed0a09a7655613cb463668feabc4866e

  \index{\LaTeX}
While this tool has a significant learning curve,
its enormous flexibility in terms of operation, collaboration,
and output formatting and styling
makes it the primary choice for most large technical outputs today.
In fact, \LaTeX\ operates behind-the-scenes in many of the tools listed in the first group.

> \subsection{Technical writing with \LaTeX}

Reviewer: I think the section on LaTeX should come before the section with tools such as DropBox paper, Rmarkdown and dyndoc, as LaTeX has proven to not be a fad and has been the staple of this for decades.

Author: It's currently after because it is a special case of dynamic document. I don't see how it could be reversed, but I clarified a bit in a68c08b545843d1b958c92760a84fd6b011ac087. Improvements here welcome.

Reviewer 3: In terms of structure, i think it would be useful to tie these tools into a workflow. Something like - dynamic docs are helpful for exploratory analysis / preparing intermediate outputs, but latex is best practice for the actual manuscript.

Reviewer: moved to #348

\LaTeX\ is billed as a ``document preparation system''.
What this means is worth unpacking.
In {\LaTeX}, instead of writing in a ``what-you-see-is-what-you-get'' mode
as you do in Word or the equivalent,
you write plain text interlaced with coded instructions for formatting
(similar in concept to HTML).
The \LaTeX\ system includes commands for simple markup
like font styles, paragraph formatting, section headers and the like.
But it also includes special controls for including tables and figures,
footnotes and endnotes, complex mathematical notation, and automated bibliography preparation.
It also allows publishers to apply global styles and templates
to already-written material, allowing them to reformat entire documents in house styles
with only a few keystrokes.
In sum, \LaTeX\ enables automatically-organized documents,
manages tables and figures dynamically,

> and (because it is written in plain text) can be version-controlled using Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and (because it is written in a plain text format, \texttt{.tex}) can be version-controlled using Git.
```
To distinguish what programmers mean as plain text and what that expression sounds like in regular English (like write something explicitly)

Author: 39da66f7401d2214b0d83bb66ca8260ce14a28fd

This is why it has become the dominant ``document preparation system'' in technical writing.

> Unfortunately, \LaTeX\ can be a challenge to set up and use at first,

Reviewer: Mention that next section introduces tools that makes it easy to get started

Author: https://github.com/worldbank/d4di/pull/293#discussion_r369109142

and it is not particularly informative when you do something wrong.
This can be off-putting very quickly for people
who simply want to get to writing, like senior researchers.
While integrated editing and compiling tools like TeXStudio\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.texstudio.org}}
and \texttt{atom-latex}\sidenote{
  \url{https://atom.io/packages/atom-latex}}
offer the most flexibility to work with \LaTeX\ on your computer,
such as advanced integration with Git,
the entire group of writers needs to be comfortable
with \LaTeX\ before adopting one of these tools.
They can require a lot of troubleshooting at a basic level at first,
and non-technical staff may not be willing or able to acquire the required knowledge.
Therefore, to take advantage of the features of \LaTeX,
while making it easy and accessible to the entire writing team,
we need to abstract away from the technical details where possible.

One of the most important tools available in \LaTeX\ is the BibTeX bibliography manager.\sidenote{
  \url{http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.365.3194&rep=rep1&type=pdf}}
BibTeX keeps all the references you might use in an auxiliary file,

> then references them as plain text in the document using a \LaTeX\ command.

Reviewer: I do not understand the usage of _plain text_ in this context

Author: 768c65dbd5782523bcf5ab8a1864d08424e25d36

The same principles that apply to figures and tables are therefore applied here:
You can make changes to the references in one place (the \texttt{.bib} file),
and then everywhere they are used they are updated correctly with one process.
Specifically, \LaTeX\ inserts references in text using the \texttt{\textbackslash cite\{\}} command.
Once this is written, \LaTeX\ automatically pulls all the citations into text
and creates a complete bibliography based on the citations you use when you compile the document.
The system allows you to specify exactly how references should be displayed in text
(such as superscripts, inline references, etc.)
as well as how the bibliography should be styled and in what order
(such as Chicago, MLA, Harvard, or other common styles).
To obtain the references for the \texttt{.bib} file,
you can copy the specification directly from Google Scholar

> by clicking ``BibTeX'' at the bottom of the Cite window.

Reviewer: That it is integrated in Google Scholar is something that I think we can use as an argument for how wide spread and standard LaTeX is in our field. And another argument for why LaTeX should be the first tool we mention in this chapter

Author: 59c0b527ba910f600326cde8bbec40677612b93e

%------------------------------------------------

\begin{fullwidth}
Publishing academic research today extends well beyond writing up and submitting a Word document alone.
There are often various contributors making specialized inputs to a single output,
a large number of iterations, versions, and revisions,

> and a wide variety of raw materials and results to be published together.

Reviewer 3: I find this sentence hard to parse. Needs rewording, maybe something like:

Typically, various contributors collaborate on both code and writing, manuscripts go through many iterations and revisions, and the final package for publication includes not only the manuscript but also the code and data used to generate the results.

Author: d2f09af98b60a0aaa26c3077f80a3c2aacfe96aa

Ideally, your team will spend as little time as possible
fussing with the technical requirements of publication.
It is in nobody's interest for a skilled and busy researcher
to spend days re-numbering references (and it can take days)
if a small amount of up-front effort could automate the task.
In this section we suggest several methods --
collectively refered to as ``dynamic documents'' --
for managing the process of collaboration on any technical product.

> For most research projects, completing a written piece is not the end of the task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For most research projects, completing a manuscript is not the end of the task.
```

> In almost all cases, you will be required to release a replication package,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Academic journals increasingly require submission of a replication package,
```

The term ``dynamic'' can refer to any document-creation technology
that allows the inclusion of explicitly encoded linkages to raw output files.
This means that, whenever outputs are updated,
the next time the document is loaded or compiled, it will automatically include
all changes made to all outputs without any additional intervention from the user.
This means that updates will never be accidentally excluded,
and it further means that updating results will not become more difficult
as the number of inputs grows,
because they are all managed by a single integrated process.

You will note that this is not possible in tools like Microsoft Office,
although there are various tools and add-ons that produce similar functionality,
and we will introduce some later in this book.
In Word, by default, you have to copy and paste each object individually
whenever tables, graphs, or other inputs have to be updated.
This creates complex inefficiency: updates may be accidentally excluded
and ensuring they are not will become more difficult as the document grows.
As time goes on, it therefore becomes more and more likely
that a mistake will be made or something will be missed.

> Furthermore, it is very hard to simultaneously edit or track changes

Reviewer 3: well OneDrive does allow for easy simultaneous edits

Author: no

in a Microsoft Word document.
It is usually the case that a file needs to be passed back and forth
and the order of contributions strictly controlled
so that time-consuming resolutions of differences can be avoided.
Therefore this is a broadly unsuitable way to prepare technical documents.

There are a number of tools that can be used for dynamic documents.

> In the first group are code-based tools such as R's RMarkdown\sidenote{\url{https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The most useful are code-based tools such as R's RMarkdown\sidenote{\url{https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/}}
```

and Stata's \texttt{dyndoc}\sidenote{\url{https://www.stata.com/manuals/rptdyndoc.pdf}}.
These tools ``knit'' or ``weave'' text and code together,
and are programmed to insert code outputs in pre-specified locations.
Documents called ``notebooks'' (such as Jupyter\sidenote{\url{https://jupyter.org/}}) work similarly,
as they also use the underlying analytical software to create the document.
These types of dynamic documents are usually appropriate for short or informal materials
because they tend to offer limited editability outside the base software

> and often have limited abilities to incorporate precision formatting.

Reviewer 3: reword so limited isn't repeated twice

Author: c1d32265de2700bc34c318e9d28e3a265009d1d2

The second group of dynamic document tools do not require
direct operation of underlying code or software, but simply require
that the writer have access to the updated outputs.
One very simple one is Dropbox Paper, a free online writing tool
that allows linkages to files in Dropbox,
which are then automatically updated anytime the file is replaced.
Dropbox Paper has very limited formatting options,

> but it is appropriate for working with collaborators who are not using statistical software.

Reviewer 3: what is the use case for this in terms of paper preparation? i think super useful at other stages (like HFCs) but not sure what the value-add is at this stage.

Author: Agree! This is for if it is not a manuscript but a blogpost or something. Do you prefer to delete?

Reviewer 3: I think either delete or clarify that this is for informal outputs (blogs are a great example)

> but it is appropriate for working with collaborators who are not using statistical software.

Reviewer 3: Suggest the following to reword this paragraph: 
There are other dynamic document tools which do not require direct operation of the underlying code or software, simply access to the updated outputs. These can be useful for working on informal outputs, such as blogposts, with  collaborators who do not code. An example of this is Dropbox Paper, a free online writing tool that allows linkages to files in Dropbox, which are automatically updated anytime the file is replaced.

In fact, \LaTeX\ operates behind-the-scenes in many of the tools listed before.
Therefore, we recommend that you learn to use \LaTeX\ directly
as soon as you are able to and provide several resources for doing so.

\subsection{Technical writing with \LaTeX}

\LaTeX\ is billed as a ``document preparation system''.
What this means is worth unpacking.
In {\LaTeX}, instead of writing in a ``what-you-see-is-what-you-get'' mode
as you do in Word or the equivalent,
you write plain text interlaced with coded instructions for formatting
(similar in concept to HTML).
The \LaTeX\ system includes commands for simple markup
like font styles, paragraph formatting, section headers and the like.
But it also includes special controls for including tables and figures,
footnotes and endnotes, complex mathematical notation, and automated bibliography preparation.
It also allows publishers to apply global styles and templates
to already-written material, allowing them to reformat entire documents in house styles
with only a few keystrokes.
In sum, \LaTeX\ enables automatically-organized documents,
manages tables and figures dynamically,
and because it is written in a plain text file format,

> \texttt{.tex} can be version-controlled using Git.

Reviewer 3: this point should be made earlier (not just in conclusion)

Author: 408f6c0fe400129ac1140abf725bd61afbee7adb

Unfortunately, \LaTeX\ can be a challenge to set up and use at first,
particularly if you are new to working with plain text code and file management.
It is also unfortunately weak with spelling and grammar checking.
This is because \LaTeX\ requires that all formatting be done in its special code language,
and it is not particularly informative when you do something wrong.
This can be off-putting very quickly for people
who simply want to get to writing, like senior researchers.
While integrated editing and compiling tools like TeXStudio\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.texstudio.org}}
and \texttt{atom-latex}\sidenote{
  \url{https://atom.io/packages/atom-latex}}
offer the most flexibility to work with \LaTeX\ on your computer,
such as advanced integration with Git,
the entire group of writers needs to be comfortable
with \LaTeX\ before adopting one of these tools.
They can require a lot of troubleshooting at a basic level at first,
and non-technical staff may not be willing or able to acquire the required knowledge.
Therefore, to take advantage of the features of \LaTeX,
while making it easy and accessible to the entire writing team,

> we need to abstract away from the technical details where possible.

Reviewer 3: This feels like it should be the intro to the latex in the cloud section - it's a surprising jump when the next paragraph is bibtex

Author: e3fdde023cc61fb4d00b8e2b7a85ef8a66430d27

\codeexample{citation.tex}{./code/citation.tex}

With these tools, you can ensure that references are handled
in a format you can manage and control.\cite{flom2005latex}
Finally, \LaTeX\ has one more useful trick:
using \textbf{\texttt{pandoc}},\sidenote{
  \url{http://pandoc.org/}}
you can translate the raw document into Word
(or a number of other formats)
by running the following code from the command line:

\codeexample{pandoc.sh}{./code/pandoc.sh}

\noindent The last portion after \texttt{csl=} specifies the bibliography style.
You can download a CSL (Citation Styles Library) file\sidenote{
  \url{https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles}}
for nearly any journal and have it applied automatically in this process.
Therefore, even in the case where you are requested to provide
\texttt{.docx} versions of materials to others, or tracked-changes versions,
you can create them effortlessly,
and use external tools like Word's compare feature
to generate integrated tracked versions when needed.

> \subsection{Getting started with \LaTeX\ via Overleaf}

Reviewer: I also have a weird feeling about this. I think one subjective preference dominates this section too much. And while there are benefits to Overleaf, it is not straightforward to follow other best practices we introduce in this book as version control everything in Git.

I think this section should be split in to two parts and a short introduction to those two parts. Those parts would be "_Getting started with LaTeX on your local machine_" (where our LaTeX training is the central resource) and "_Getting started with LaTeX on in the cloud_" (where Overleaf is an example that we base that part on). The introduction to those two parts explains the pros and cons with the two paths on how to getting started, but also mentioning it is probably easiest learning LaTeX trying out both.

> \subsection{Getting started with \LaTeX\ via Overleaf}

Author: Agreed and rewritten in 79aa4bfe7efeb0fbdfba1da61c9a1a78a22429c3. Let me know if anything is inaccurate.

> \subsection{Getting started with \LaTeX\ via Overleaf}

Reviewer: Lets discuss when we all meet today. I think your edits are good for this, but I think that we need to restructure a bit to address all of my comments, but that lets discuss in person and then resolve.

> \subsection{Getting started with \LaTeX\ via Overleaf}

Reviewer 2: #348

A new user should, for example, be able to easily identify and remove
any files created by the code so that they can be recreated quickly.
They should also be able to quickly map all the outputs of the code
to the locations where they are placed in the associated published material,
such as ensuring that the raw components of figures or tables are clearly identified.
For example, outputs should clearly correspond by name to an exhibit in the paper, and vice versa.
(Supplying a compiling \LaTeX\ document can support this.)
Code and outputs which are not used should be removed.

\subsection{Releasing a replication package}

If you are at this stage,
all you need to do is find a place to publish your materials.
This is slightly easier said than done,
as there are a few variables to take into consideration
and no global consensus on the best solution.
The technologies available are likely to change dramatically
over the next few years;
the specific solutions we mention here highlight some current approaches
as well as their strengths and weaknesses.
GitHub provides one solution.
Making your GitHub repository public

> is completely free for finalized projects.

Reviewer 2: But not for ongoing projects?

Author: Fixed in ffed54381a980a7a435af263d597e35ac9637c46

but the control it offers over the writing process is invaluable.
In order to make it as easy as possible for your team
to use \LaTeX\ without all members having to invest in new skills,
we suggest using the web-based Overleaf implementation as your first foray into \LaTeX\ writing.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.overleaf.com}}
While the Overleaf site has a subscription feature that offers some useful extensions,
its free-to-use version offers basic tools that are sufficient
for a broad variety of basic applications,
up to and including writing a complete academic paper with coauthors.

Overleaf's implementation of \LaTeX\ is suggested here for several reasons.
Since it is completely hosted online,
it avoids the inevitable troubleshooting of setting up a \LaTeX\ installation
on various personal computers run by the different members of your team.
It also automatically maintains a single master copy of the document
so that different writers do not create conflicted or out-of-sync copies,
and allows inviting collaborators to edit in a fashion similar to Google Docs.
Overleaf also offers a basic version history tool that avoids having to use separate software.

> Most importantly, it provides a ``rich text'' editor

Reviewer: What is _rich text editor_ here? That you have buttons you can click for bold and italic? Or that the output is automatically updated?

Author: Both, basically an "almost" WYSIWYG (because, of course, it is not that)

that behaves pretty similarly to familiar tools like Word,
so that people can write into the document without worrying too much
about the underlying \LaTeX\ coding.
Overleaf also offers a convenient selection of templates
so it is easy to start up a project and see results right away.

On the downside, there is a small amount of up-front learning required,
continous access to the Internet is necessary,
and updating figures and tables requires a bulk file upload that is tough to automate.
One of the most common issues you will face using Overleaf's ``rich text'' 
editor will be special characters
which, because of code functions, need to be handled differently than in Word.

> Most critically, the ampersand (\texttt{\&}), percent (\texttt{\%}), and underscore (\texttt{\_})

Reviewer: These examples are note specific to Overleaf. They should probably go in the section that talks about LaTeX in general. Similarly to BibTex

%------------------------------------------------

\section{Preparing a complete replication package}

While we have focused so far on the preparation of written materials for publication,
it is increasingly important for you to consider how you will publish
the data and code you used for your research as well.
More and more major journals are requiring that publications
provide direct links to both the code and data used to create the results,
and some even require being able to reproduce the results themselves
before they will approve a paper for publication.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/}}
If your material has been well-structured throughout the analytical process,
this will only require a small amount of extra work;
if not, paring it down to the ``replication package'' may take some time.
A complete replication package should accomplish several core functions.
It must provide the exact data and code that is used for a paper,
all necessary de-identified data for the analysis,
and all code necessary for the analysis.
The code should exactly reproduce the raw outputs you have used for the paper,

> and should include no extraneous documentation or PII data you would not share publicly.

Reviewer: What do we mean by "_no extraneous documentation_"?

Author: Don't need that word c24cc8d2b083ec6d45b21ced288532305b253650

Reviewer: What do we mean by  "_should include no documentation_"? Shouldn't a replication package include some documentation? It is important that the code runs without a lot of manual instructions in the documentation, but including documentation sounds like a good idea to me.

Reviewer 3: Suggest to reframe this as the replication folder should not include documents that are not directly related to the data itself (e.g. survey firm contracts, enumerator contact information, etc)

\subsection{Publishing data for replication}

Enabling permanent access to the data used in your study
is an important contribution you can make along with the publication of results.
It allows other researchers to validate the mechanical construction of your results,
to investigate what other results might be obtained from the same population,
and test alternative approaches to other questions.
Therefore you should make clear in your study

> where and how data are stored and how it might be accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where and how data are stored, and how and under what circumstances it might be accessed.
```

Want to make a distinction between the technical aspect of "how it is accessed" and the permission aspect of "how it is accessed".

Author: cb9f37a85e182dacddec0917ce32130ce9c426b1

You do not have to publish data yourself,
although in many cases you will have the right to release

> at least some subset of your analytical dataset.

Reviewer: I do not understand what we are trying to say here:

_You do not have to publish data yourself, although in many cases you will have the right to release at least some subset of your analytical dataset._

Author: Much more detail b73d2d0a46eda52016c1e3b9973cc2b6d484f69b

Reviewer: ok, now I understand what we are trying to say, What about these suggestions broken down to each point we are trying to make:

"_You do not always have to publish the data yourself, and in some cases you are legally not allowed to, but what matters is that the data is published (with or without access restrictions) and that you cite or otherwise directly reference all data, even data that you cannot release._"

Constructed is bold as I changed analytical to that. What we used to describe this data set in the previous chapter was constructed.

"_Even when your raw data is owned by someone else, or for any other reason are not able to publish it, in many cases you will have the right to release at least some subset of your **constructed** data set even if it is just indicators you constructed._"

Can this be re-written. I understand what you are getting at, but not exactly which points you are trying to make.
"_Check with the data supplier or other professional about licensing questions,
particularly your right to publish derivative materials._"

Author: 80ad7f6559caeea43f26c66cdba5499cd3712dc4

depending on how it was collected,
and the best time to resolve any questions about these rights
is at the time that data collection or transfer agreements are signed.
Even if you cannot release data immediately or publicly,
there are often options to catalog or archive the data without open publication.
These may take the form of metadata catalogs or embargoed releases.
Such setups allow you to hold an archival version of your data
which your publication can reference,
as well as provide information about the contents of the datasets
and how future users might request permission to access them
(even if you are not the person who can grant that permission).
They can also provide for timed future releases of datasets
once the need for exclusive access has ended.

Data publication should release the dataset in a widely recognized format.
While software-specific datasets are acceptable accompaniments to the code
(since those precise materials are probably necessary),
you should also consider releasing generic datasets
such as CSV files with accompanying codebooks,
since these will be re-adaptable by any researcher.
Additionally, when possible, you should also release

> the data collection instrument or survey used to gather the information

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
the data collection questionnaire or survey used to gather the information
```

I think this will make sense to more number of readers. Calling a questionnaire an instrument is more exact but only make sense to people already introduced to the vocabulary

Author: b4cab852f19346cf36cef226a0c5268e0eca1210

so that readers can understand which data components are
collected directly in the field and which are derived.
You should provide a clean version of the data

> which corresponds exactly to the original database or instrument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which corresponds exactly to the original database or questionnaire
```

I think this will make sense to more number of readers. Calling a questionnaire an instrument is more exact but only make sense to people already introduced to the vocabulary

Author: fedd6169a2496aa665e950c4a9c03e202401c46a

as well as the constructed or derived dataset used for analysis.
Wherever possible, you should also release the code
that constructs any derived measures,
particularly where definitions may vary,
so that others can learn from your work and adapt it as they like.

\subsection{Publishing code for replication}

Before publishing your code, you should edit it for content and clarity
just as if it were written material.
The purpose of releasing code is to allow others to understand
exactly what you have done in order to obtain your results,
as well as to apply similar methods in future projects.
Therefore it should both be functional and readable.
Code is often not written this way when it is first prepared,
so it is important for you to review the content and organization
so that a new reader can figure out what and how your code should do.
Therefore, whereas your data should already be very clean at this stage,
your code is much less likely to be so, and this is where you need to make
time investments prior to releasing your replication package.
By contrast, replication code usually has few legal and privacy constraints.
In most cases code will not contain identifying information;

> check carefully that it does not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but make sure to check carefully that it does not.
```

Author: d75ce1a165126b7d22f59e6c84469961b47738f4

Install any required user-written commands in the master script
(for example, in Stata using \texttt{ssc install} or \texttt{net install}
and in R include code giving users the option to install packages,
including selecting a specific version of the package if necessary).
In many cases you can even directly provide the underlying code
for any user-installed packages that are needed to ensure forward-compatibility.
Make sure system settings like \texttt{version}, \texttt{matsize}, and \texttt{varabbrev} are set.

Finally, make sure that the code and its inputs and outputs are clearly identified.
A new user should, for example, be able to easily identify and remove
any files created by the code so that they can be recreated quickly.
They should also be able to quickly map all the outputs of the code
to the locations where they are placed in the associated published material,
such as ensuring that the raw components of figures or tables are clearly identified.
For example, outputs should clearly correspond by name to an exhibit in the paper, and vice versa.
(Supplying a compiling \LaTeX\ document can support this.)
Code and outputs which are not used should be removed -- 

> if you are using GitHub, consider making them available in a different branch for transparency.

Reviewer: "_consider making them available in a different branch_" - we cannot just mention this without explaining. And keeping track of a stale branch without in a meaningful way i non-trivial, so I do not know if we should keep this here.

Author: fb7aca54df3015bb18dc1257c989c07df9e15792

\subsection{Releasing a replication package}

If you are at this stage,
all you need to do is find a place to publish your materials.
This is slightly easier said than done,
as there are a few variables to take into consideration

> and no global consensus on the best solution.

Reviewer: This section in general seems like something that will be outdated quickly, so I think we should add reservations like these:
```suggestion
and, at the time of writing, no global consensus on the best solution.
```

Author: 36487cdedd381802485d620987839fdc70c312bb

The technologies available are likely to change dramatically
over the next few years;
the specific solutions we mention here highlight some current approaches
as well as their strengths and weaknesses.
GitHub provides one solution.
Making your GitHub repository public
is completely free for finalized projects.

> It can hold any file types,

Author: 99de660e8840afada7853fe2307df2673da36f74

provide a structured download of your whole project,
and allow others to look at alternate versions or histories easily.
It is straightforward to simply upload a fixed directory to GitHub
apply a sharing license, and obtain a URL for the whole package.

However, GitHub is not ideal for other reasons.
It is not built to hold data in an efficient way
or to manage licenses or citations for datasets.
It does not provide a true archive service --
you can change or remove the contents at any time.
A repository such as the Harvard Dataverse\sidenote{
  \url{https://dataverse.harvard.edu}}

> addresses these issues, but is a poor place to store code.

Reviewer: Why is it a poor place to store code? We cannot say something about _dataverse_ is poor and then not justify it

Author: 2cc65624d30fd9ebc560f397ea109afdc352ca16

Reviewer: did you mean "_as it is **not** designed to be a citable code repository._"

Author: more clarity 177316c4719c315084f2e95de24af00e1c4ff69b

The Open Science Framework\sidenote{
  \url{https://osf.io}}
provides a balanced implementation
that holds both code and data (as well as simple version histories),
as does ResearchGate\sidenote{
  \url{https://https://www.researchgate.net}}
(both of which can also assign a permanent digital object identifier link for your work).
Any of these locations is acceptable --
the main requirement is that the system can handle
the structured directory that you are submitting,

> and that it can provide a stable, structured URL for your project.

Reviewer: _Any of these locations is acceptable --the main requirement is that the system can handle the structured directory that you are submitting, and that it can provide a stable, structured URL for your project._ 

Another very important main requirement is that the system also shows exactly what, if any, modifications you have done since the point of initial publishing. That is mentioned elsewhere, but important enough to also be included in this summary of main requirements.

Author: dd7cc864a220f7c2a144db4b1610a4e046435cb0

so that different writers do not create conflicted or out-of-sync copies,
or need to deal with Git themselves to maintain that sync.
They typically allow inviting collaborators to edit in a fashion similar to Google Docs,
though different services vary the number of collaborators and documents allowed at each tier.
Most importantly, some tools provide a ``rich text'' editor
that behaves pretty similarly to familiar tools like Word,
so that collaborators can write text directly into the document without worrying too much
about the underlying \LaTeX\ coding.
Cloud services also usually offer a convenient selection of templates
so it is easy to start up a project and see results right away
without needing to know a lot of the code that controls document formatting.

On the downside, there is a small amount of up-front learning required,
continous access to the Internet is necessary,
and updating figures and tables requires a bulk file upload that is tough to automate.
One of the most common issues you will face using online editors will be special characters
which, because of code functions, need to be handled differently than in Word.

> Most critically, the ampersand (\texttt{\&}), percent (\texttt{\%}), and underscore (\texttt{\_})

Reviewer 3: Would this level of detail fit better into a wiki page than the main text of the book? it's a general question for us to keep in mind, i think the level of detail varies quite a bit across chapters.

Author: I think this might be important enough to include in the text, but maybe could be sidebarred

Reviewer: moved to issue #348

It must provide the exact data and code that is used for a paper,
all necessary de-identified data for the analysis,
and all code necessary for the analysis.
The code should exactly reproduce the raw outputs you have used for the paper,
and should include no documentation or PII data you would not share publicly.

\subsection{Publishing data for replication}

Enabling permanent access to the data used in your study
is an important contribution you can make along with the publication of results.
It allows other researchers to validate the mechanical construction of your results,
to investigate what other results might be obtained from the same population,
and test alternative approaches to other questions.
Therefore you should make clear in your study
where and how data are stored, and how and under what circumstances it might be accessed.
You do not always have to complete the data publication data yourself,
as long as you cite or otherwise directly reference data that you cannot release.
Even if you think your raw data is owned by someone else,
in many cases you will have the right to release
at least some subset of your analytical dataset or the indicators you constructed.

> Check with the data supplier or other professional about licensing questions,

Reviewer 3: Add here the importance of establishing a data licensing agreement if directly acquiring data from partners (e.g. administrative data that is not otherwise public, or proprietary data from firms, etc).

Author: Could this go in data collection? or even sooner where we talk about consent etc?

Reviewer 3: created issue #351

Keep in mind that you may or may not own your data,
depending on how it was collected,
and the best time to resolve any questions about these rights
is at the time that data collection or transfer agreements are signed.
Even if you cannot release data immediately or publicly,
there are often options to catalog or archive the data without open publication.
These may take the form of metadata catalogs or embargoed releases.
Such setups allow you to hold an archival version of your data
which your publication can reference,
as well as provide information about the contents of the datasets
and how future users might request permission to access them
(even if you are not the person who can grant that permission).
They can also provide for timed future releases of datasets
once the need for exclusive access has ended.

Data publication should release the dataset in a widely recognized format.
While software-specific datasets are acceptable accompaniments to the code
(since those precise materials are probably necessary),
you should also consider releasing generic datasets
such as CSV files with accompanying codebooks,
since these will be re-adaptable by any researcher.

> Additionally, when possible, you should also release

Reviewer 3: when is it not possible? i think better to assume documentation should always be provided

Author: d3b5eb4a91139e42a183a8beeb3989ede43b3774

the data collection instrument or survey questionnaire used to gather the information
so that readers can understand which data components are
collected directly in the field and which are derived.
You should provide a clean version of the data
which corresponds exactly to the original database or questionnaire
as well as the constructed or derived dataset used for analysis.
Wherever possible, you should also release the code
that constructs any derived measures,
particularly where definitions may vary,

> so that others can learn from your work and adapt it as they like.

Reviewer 3: is this different from the 'publishing code for replication' section below? 

In general it would be good to be clearer about the distinction between publishing data as a whole (raw but de-identified, directly corresponding to survey instrument) and publishing analysis data (or just the code that runs directly from the otherwise-published raw data).

Author: agreed. this is exactly the point

\subsection{Publishing code for replication}

Before publishing your code, you should edit it for content and clarity
just as if it were written material.
The purpose of releasing code is to allow others to understand
exactly what you have done in order to obtain your results,
as well as to apply similar methods in future projects.
Therefore it should both be functional and readable.

> Code is often not written this way when it is first prepared,

Reviewer 3: let's refer back to our chapter on coding as a team, say that if you've followed the steps previously outlined this is straightforward

Author: 77a6fde65fa985a525f7f498756ec1b0071582b2

In most cases code will not contain identifying information;
but make sure to check carefully that it does not.
Publishing code also requires assigning a license to it;
in a majority of cases, code publishers like GitHub
offer extremely permissive licensing options by default.
(If you do not provide a license, nobody can use your code!)

Make sure the code functions identically on a fresh install of your chosen software.
A new user should have no problem getting the code to execute perfectly.
In either a scripts folder or in the root directory,
include a master script (dofile or R script for example).
The master script should allow the reviewer
to change a single line of code: the one setting the directory path.
After that, running the master script should run the entire project
and re-create all the raw outputs exactly as supplied.
Indicate the filename and line to change.
Check that all your code will run completely on a new computer:
Install any required user-written commands in the master script
(for example, in Stata using \texttt{ssc install} or \texttt{net install}
and in R include code giving users the option to install packages,

> including selecting a specific version of the package if necessary).

Reviewer 3: Should link to the checklist - in doing so may make sense to reduce level of detail (though not sure)

Reviewer 2: #349

In many cases you can even directly provide the underlying code
for any user-installed packages that are needed to ensure forward-compatibility.
Make sure system settings like \texttt{version}, \texttt{matsize}, and \texttt{varabbrev} are set.

> Finally, make sure that the code and its inputs and outputs are clearly identified.

Reviewer 3: link this back to the section on master scripts in chapter 6

Author: 519f9de65d2fd09e94b6cc1d1d71c5fe97bde34a

This is slightly easier said than done,
as there are a few variables to take into consideration
and, at the time of writing, no global consensus on the best solution.
The technologies available are likely to change dramatically
over the next few years;
the specific solutions we mention here highlight some current approaches
as well as their strengths and weaknesses.
GitHub provides one solution.
Making a GitHub repository public is completely free.
It can hold any file types,
provide a structured download of your whole project,
and allow others to look at alternate versions or histories easily.
It is straightforward to simply upload a fixed directory to GitHub
apply a sharing license, and obtain a URL for the whole package.
(However, there is a strict size restriction of 100MB per file and
a restriction on the size of the repository as a whole,
so larger projects will need alternative solutions.)

However, GitHub is not ideal for other reasons.
It is not built to hold data in an efficient way
or to manage licenses or citations for datasets.
It does not provide a true archive service --
you can change or remove the contents at any time.

> A repository such as the Harvard Dataverse\sidenote{

Reviewer 3: Is GitHub our first recommendation, given the drawbacks? are there drawbacks of dataverse?

Author: GitHub is nice but proprietary, but since MS owns it it's like Office now.... data verse is not good for code last I checked as it didn't preserve directory structures well but maybe that's changed?

Reviewer 2: in #350
